added howto use for the utility classes (#511)
ROCm/rocDecode: docs/how-to/using-rocdecode.rst

.. meta::
  :description: Using rocDecode
  :keywords: parse video, parse, decode, video decoder, video decoding, rocDecode, core APIs, AMD, ROCm

********************************************************************
Using the rocDecode core APIs
********************************************************************

> rocDecode core APIs are available in the |apifolder|_ of the `rocDecode GitHub repository <https://github.com/ROCm/rocDecode>`_. 

Reviewer: the git link should be coded so the icon shows up

Author: I'm gonna go ahead and disagree on this. The text works better than a raw url with an icon.

.. note::

>   The rocDecode samples use the utility classes in the |utilsfolder|_ instead of the core APIs. For information about using the utility classes, see :doc:`Using rocDecode with the FFmpeg decoder <./using-rocDecode-ffmpeg>` and :doc:`Using rocDecode with the bitstream decoder <./using-rocDecode-bitstream>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The rocDecode samples use the utility classes in the |utilsfolder|_ instead of the core APIs. For information about using the utility classes, see :doc:`Using rocDecode with the FFmpeg decoder <./using-rocDecode-ffmpeg>` and :doc:`Using rocDecode with the bitstream decoder <./using-rocDecode-bitstream>`.

```

API overview
====================================================

All rocDecode APIs are exposed in the header files ``rocdecode.h`` and ``rocparser.h``. You can find

> these files in the `api` folder in the rocDecode repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
these files in the **api** folder in the rocDecode repository.

```

Author: The folder's name is `api`.

I used ` instead of ``. Will correct.

The samples use the ``RocVideoDecoder`` user class provided in ``roc_video_dec.h`` in the ``utils`` folder
of the rocDecode repository.

> A video parser (defined in ``rocparser.h``) is needed to extract and decode headers from the bitstream
> in order to organize the data into a structured format for the hardware decoder. The parser is critical in
> video decoding, as it controls the decoding and display of a bitstream's individual frames and fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A video parser (defined in ``rocparser.h``) is needed to extract and decode headers from the bitstream
to organize the data into a structured format for the hardware decoder. The parser is critical in
video decoding, as it controls the decoding and displaying a bitstream's individual frames and fields.

```

Reviewer: I'm not sure of this suggestion.

Author: It doesn't really work. I'm going to leave it as-is. This topic is going to be rewritten anyways.

* ``rocDecParseVideoData()``
* ``rocDecDestroyVideoParser()``

Create a parser object
====================================================

The ``rocDecCreateVideoParser()`` API creates a video parser object for the codec that you specify. The
API takes ``max_num_decode_surfaces``, which determines the Decoded Picture Buffer (DPB) size for
decoding. When creating a parser object, the application must register certain callback functions with
the driver, which is called from the parser during decode.

* ``pfn_sequence_callback`` is called when the parser encounters a new sequence header. The parser
  informs you of the minimum number of surfaces needed by the parser's DPB to successfully decode
  the bitstream. In addition, the caller can set additional parameters, like ``max_display_delay``, to
  control frame decoding and display.

* The ``pfn_decode_picture`` callback function is triggered when a picture is set for decoding.

* The ``pfn_display_picture`` callback function is triggered when a frame in display order is ready to be
  consumed by the caller.

* The ``pfn_get_sei_msg`` callback function is triggered when your Supplementation Enhancement

>   Information (SEI) message is parsed and sent back to the caller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Information (SEI) message is parsed and returned to the caller.

```

After submitting a frame for decoding, you can call ``rocDecGetDecodeStatus()`` to query the decoding
status for a given frame. A structure pointer, ``RocdecDecodeStatus*``, is filled and returned.

The API inputs are:

* ``decoder_handle``: A ``RocDecoder`` handler, ``rocDecDecoderHandle``.
* ``pic_idx``: An `int` value for the ``picIdx`` for which you want a status in order to index of the picture.
* ``decode_status``: A pointer to ``RocdecDecodeStatus`` as a return value.

The API returns one of the following statuses:

* Invalid (0): Decode status is not valid.
* In Progress (1): Decoding is in progress.
* Success (2): Decoding was successful and no errors were returned.
* Error (8): The frame was corrupted, but the error was not concealed.
* Error Concealed (9): The frame was corrupted and the error was concealed.
* Displaying (10): Decode is complete, display in progress.

Prepare the decoded frame for further processing
====================================================

The decoded frames can be used for further postprocessing using ``rocDecGetVideoFrame()``. The
successful completion of ``rocDecGetVideoFrame()`` indicates that the decoding process is complete and

> the device memory pointer is inter-opped into the ROCm HIP address space in order to further process
> the decoded frame in device memory. The caller gets the necessary information on the output surface,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the device memory pointer is inter-opped into the ROCm HIP address space to process
the decoded frame in device memory. The caller gets the necessary information on the output surface,

```

Reviewer: Does HIP need a hyperlink?

Author: Like before, this isn't the component, but the backend. So?

        OUT_SURFACE_MEM_DEV_INTERNAL = 0,      /**<  Internal interopped decoded surface memory **/
        OUT_SURFACE_MEM_DEV_COPIED = 1,        /**<  decoded output will be copied to a separate device memory **/
        OUT_SURFACE_MEM_HOST_COPIED = 2        /**<  decoded output will be copied to a separate host memory **/
        OUT_SURFACE_MEM_NOT_MAPPED = 3         /**<  decoded output is not available (interop won't be used): useful for decode only performance app*/
    } OutputSurfaceMemoryType;

If the mapped surface type is ``OUT_SURFACE_MEM_DEV_INTERNAL``, the direct pointer to the decoded
surface is provided. You must call ``ReleaseFrame()`` (``RocVideoDecoder`` class). If the requested surface
type is ``OUT_SURFACE_MEM_DEV_COPIED`` or ``OUT_SURFACE_MEM_HOST_COPIED``, the internal
decoded frame is copied to another buffer, either in device memory or host memory. After that, it's
immediately unmapped for re-use by the ``RocVideoDecoder`` class.

Refer to the ``RocVideoDecoder`` class and
`samples <https://github.com/ROCm/rocDecode/tree/develop/samples>`_ for details on how to use
these APIs.

Reconfigure the decoder
====================================================

> 

Reviewer: don't use hyphen:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8688d001-3e30-4a3d-a07d-cf0c7349ff62)

Author: Merriam-Webster uses no hyphen so I'll go no hyphen.

You can call ``rocDecReconfigureDecoder()`` to reuse a single decoder for multiple clips or when the
video resolution changes during the decode. The API currently supports resolution changes, resize
parameter changes, and target area parameter changes for the same codec without destroying an
ongoing decoder instance. This can improve performance and reduce overall latency.

The API inputs are:

* ``decoder_handle``: A ``RocDecoder`` handler, ``rocDecDecoderHandle``.
* ``reconfig_params``: You must specify the parameters for the changes in
  ``RocdecReconfigureDecoderInfo``. The width and height used for reconfiguration cannot exceed the
  values set for ``max_width`` and ``max_height``, defined in ``RocDecoderCreateInfo``. If you need to

>   change these values, you have to destroy and recreate the session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  change these values, you must destroy and recreate the session.

```

Author: I thought we weren't supposed to deal in absolutes.

API overview
====================================================

All rocDecode APIs are exposed in the header files ``rocdecode.h`` and ``rocparser.h``. You can find
these files in the ``api`` folder in the rocDecode repository.

The samples use the ``RocVideoDecoder`` user class provided in ``roc_video_dec.h`` in the ``utils`` folder
of the rocDecode repository.

A video parser (defined in ``rocparser.h``) is needed to extract and decode headers from the bitstream
in order to organize the data into a structured format for the hardware decoder. The parser is critical in
video decoding, as it controls the decoding and display of a bitstream's individual frames and fields.

The parser object in ``rocparser.h`` has three main APIs:

* ``rocDecCreateVideoParser()``
* ``rocDecParseVideoData()``
* ``rocDecDestroyVideoParser()``

Create a parser object
====================================================

The ``rocDecCreateVideoParser()`` API creates a video parser object for the codec that you specify. The
API takes ``max_num_decode_surfaces``, which determines the Decoded Picture Buffer (DPB) size for

> decoding. When creating a parser object, the application needs to register certain callback functions with
> the driver, which is called from the parser during decode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
decoding. When creating a parser object, the application must register certain callback functions with
the driver, which is called from the parser during decode.

```

* The ``pfn_decode_picture`` callback function is triggered when a picture is set for decoding.

* The ``pfn_display_picture`` callback function is triggered when a frame in display order is ready to be
  consumed by the caller.

* The ``pfn_get_sei_msg`` callback function is triggered when your Supplementation Enhancement
  Information (SEI) message is parsed and returned to the caller.

Parse video data
====================================================

Elementary stream video packets extracted from the de-multiplexer are fed into the parser using the
``rocDecParseVideoData()`` API.

During this call, the parser triggers the callbacks as it encounters a new sequence header, receives
compressed frame/field data ready to be decoded, or when it's ready to display a frame. If any of the
callbacks return a failure, it is propagated back to the application so the decoding can be ended
gracefully.

Query decode capabilities
====================================================

The ``rocDecGetDecoderCaps()`` API allows you to query the capabilities of the underlying hardware
video decoder. Decoder capabilities usually include supported codecs, maximum resolution, and

> bit-depth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
bit depth.

```

    memset(&decode_caps, 0, sizeof(decode_caps));
    decode_caps.codec_type = p_video_format->codec;
    decode_caps.chroma_format = p_video_format->chroma_format;
    decode_caps.bit_depth_minus_8 = p_video_format->bit_depth_luma_minus8;

    ROCDEC_API_CALL(rocDecGetDecoderCaps(&decode_caps));

    if(!decode_caps.is_supported) {
        ROCDEC_THROW("Rocdec:: Codec not supported on this GPU: ", ROCDEC_NOT_SUPPORTED);
        return 0;
    }

    if ((p_video_format->coded_width > decode_caps.max_width) ||
        (p_video_format->coded_height > decode_caps.max_height)) {

        std::ostringstream errorString;
        errorString << std::endl
                    << "Resolution          : " << p_video_format->coded_width << "x" << p_video_format->coded_height << std::endl
                    << "Max Supported (wxh) : " << decode_caps.max_width << "x" << decode_caps.max_height << std::endl
                    << "Resolution not supported on this GPU ";

        const std::string cErr = errorString.str();
        ROCDEC_THROW(cErr, ROCDEC_NOT_SUPPORTED);
        return 0;
    }

Create a decoder
====================================================

> ``rocDecCreateDecoder()`` creates an instance of the hardware video decoder object and provides you
> with a handle upon successful creation. Refer to the ``RocDecoderCreateInfo`` structure for information
> about the parameters passed for creating the decoder. For example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``rocDecCreateDecoder()`` creates an instance of the hardware video decoder object and provides
a handle upon successful creation. Refer to the ``RocDecoderCreateInfo`` structure for information
about the parameters passed for creating the decoder. For example,

```

Author: let me look at what rocDecCreateDecoder() does and how it passes the handle.

Author: I'm leaving this as-is. rocDecCreateDecoder passes the handle back in a param, so it's a little nuanced how to refer to it. I'm going to be rewriting this later.
